Starting Primary school in England 

In England, all children have the option to start in the reception year of school in the 
September following their fourth birthday. A small number of children born prematurely 
encounter difficulties in starting school at this time. Some parents feel their child will 
benefit from starting reception following their fifth birthday, which is compulsory school 
age and the age a child has to be in formal education. One reason you might want to delay 
your child’s school start is, because of your child’s premature birth, they have now 
fallen into the ‘wrong’ year group. You may also feel your child hasn’t reached the 
developmental level they need to be at to be ready for school, so you might want to 
consider delaying their school start for these reasons too.

There is no legal barrier to children starting school in a year outside of their 
chronological age group. However, schools are often reluctant to allow children to 
start reception year when they are five and new (LINK)Government Guidance on the Admission 
of summer born children(LINK) stresses that parents ‘can’t insist’ their child is placed 
out of their normal year group.

In this section we explain some of the options available to parents in this situation, 
outlining the advantages and disadvantages of deferring or delaying school entry. 
It is intended to help you if you feel your child will benefit from starting reception 
a little later. Although we have listed several different possibilities, it does not 
mean that your child will be affected by any or all of these issues. 
Each child is an individual.

Different processes and rules exist in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Make sure you read our nation-specific advice (LINK)here(LINK) if you live outside of 
England if you want more information on your options, or you're concerned about your child 
starting school when they are not ready.

If you would like more information please download our (LINK)Delay factsheet(LINK). 

Bliss also campaigns to ensure premature children are able to start school at a time 
that's right for them. Find out more on our (LINK)campaigns pages(LINK).

LINKS:
Your options

What the law says

Your application pack

Appeals and complaints

Long term considerations

Delaying school entry in the rest of the UK
