Bliss buddy scheme

The Bliss Buddy scheme is a one-to-one service for families of babies who have been, 
or are in, neonatal care. Parents who may need a bit of extra support are matched with 
other parents who have previously been through the experience of having a baby in special 
care. Although each parent’s experience is unique, feedback suggests that peer support of 
this type can offer a great deal of benefit.

Who are Bliss Buddies?

Bliss Buddies are parent volunteers who have experienced first-hand the challenges of 
having a premature or sick baby, and are willing to offer their time to support other 
parents. They can provide a personal rather than a professional understanding of your 
experience. All Buddies have been carefully selected and trained for this role.

What can you expect from a Bliss Buddy?

A Buddy provides a listening ear and emotional support. The methods of support include 
phone, email and text, and, in some parts of the country, face-to-face support. 
For many parents, one phone call will provide the support they need, but you are welcome 
to keep in touch with your Buddy for up to three months from the time of your first contact.

When can I request a Buddy?

You can ask for a Buddy whenever suits you. Some parents find once they are discharged 
home with their baby, they can start to feel isolated or anxious. Support is available 
whenever you need it.

Are your conversations with your Bliss Buddy confidential?

Your conversations are confidential as long as the Buddy believes that nothing you 
say indicates a risk of harm to yourself or to someone else. Where confidentiality 
needs to be breached, the Buddy will contact a member of the Bliss staff team to 
discuss your situation. You might need support that is different from the support 
that a Buddy can provide.

Can you change your Bliss Buddy if you’re not happy?

To ensure maximum benefit to you, we want you to have a positive relationship with your 
Buddy. If you feel that you are not receiving the support you need, we would encourage 
you to get in touch with us so that we can try to find you a different Buddy.

What happens at the end of my Buddy relationship?

We will give you a short questionnaire to complete at the end of the service. 
Your feedback will help strengthen our service to parents.

How can I get support from a Bliss Buddy?

All you need to do is to phone the Bliss Helpline on (PHONE)0500 618 140(PHONE) or 
email (EMAIL)hello@bliss.org.uk(EMAIL). An advisor will take some details and match you up with a Buddy within a few days.
