Helpline

Need to talk to someone? Call the Bliss Family Services Helpline on 
(PHONE)0500 618140(PHONE) to speak to one of our qualified advisors.

The Family Services Helpline is a UK-wide service that offers advice and support to 
families and friends of anyone with a baby who is in, or has been in, neonatal care. 
We also offer advice and information to professionals working with families. 

Our team of qualified advisors can provide you with support and advice as well as 
referring you to our other services, many of them free of charge.

The Helpline is free to call from landlines and is available Monday to Friday between 
10am and 4pm and Monday to Wednesday between 7pm and 9pm. All calls are confidential.

When the helpline is closed you can still email (EMAIL)hello@bliss.org.uk(EMAIL) any time 
and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.

The Bliss and Netmums (LINK)forum(LINK) offers a large community of other parents to speak 
to for advice and mutual support. Parents can also visit the 
(LINK)'We're here to help'(LINK) section of our website for information and advice.

Interpreting services

Bliss is a member of Language Line, the telephone interpreter service, which has 
access to qualified interpreters in over 170 languages. Just call the freephone 
helpline number (PHONE)0500 618 140(PHONE) with your name, telephone number and 
language you require.

We will then call you back with a qualified interpreter in your chosen language, 
so you can receive the best support and advice. This service is free of charge to all 
parents. Calls are arranged during office hours.

Typetalk

For callers who are deaf or hard of hearing, it is easy to access the helpline via 
Text Relay by calling (PHONE)018001 0500 618 140(PHONE). 
You can find out more information about how the Text Relay service works (LINK)here(LINK)

Email

If you would prefer to receive practical or emotional support by email, contact 
the Family Services team at (EMAIL)hello@bliss.org.uk(EMAIL). You can email us at any 
time and we will get back to you as soon as possible.

Counselling

We continue to have a network of Bliss trained counsellors who families can contact 
directly for support. Please see the map below to find a counsellor in your area.
 
You may also wish to speak to staff at the hospital where your baby was born to see 
if they offer a counselling service, or you can view a full list of psychological 
therapies available on the NHS here: (LINK)http://www.iapt.nhs.uk/services/(LINK)

Map showing where Bliss counsellors are located within the UK. To search by postcode, 
please expand the map.

**MAP HERE**
