Bereavement

Every parent's experience is individual, and every circumstance is different, 
but the death of a baby can bring a grief that is deeper and lasts much longer 
than most people realise.

"There’s never a day goes by when I don’t think of him." Sarah, mother of Daniel 
(born at 28 weeks, lived to six months).

Caring from the start

Many parents who have been through this experience have talked about not wanting to 
get too attached to their baby because they are afraid that their baby will not survive. 
However, research has shown that those who did get involved in their baby’s care, even 
though their baby eventually died, say that knowing they had done all they could while 
their baby was alive helped them to deal with the loss of their baby later.

How you might feel

The grief that comes from losing your baby can be much deeper and last longer than 
most people expect. Although people may say that you will ‘get over it’, you are likely 
to ‘contain’ the experience and carry it with you for the rest of your life. 
Everyone’s circumstances are different and every experience is individual.

In the first few days, you may find it difficult to believe that your baby is no 
longer with you and it may seem as if you are in a bad dream. The reality will slowly 
unfold and you may experience the pain at its worse just when you, and others, think 
that it should be ‘getting better’.

Parents, especially mothers, easily blame themselves for their baby’s condition and 
often feel guilty, as if they should have been able to stop the death from happening. 
You may feel angry with yourself, your loved ones and the health professionals who 
looked after your baby.

The death of a baby is a devastating experience. The effects of grief can be overwhelming 
and it can be hard to take in information, to make decisions or to imagine how you are 
going to cope. Often parents feel overwhelmed and frightened by the intensity of their 
emotional and physical pain. The grief process will take its course, but if you are 
concerned, it may be beneficial to seek help.

Talking things through with someone who understands can make you feel less isolated and 
help you see that your feelings are entirely appropriate. Understanding the grieving 
process can help to reassure you that what you are feeling is normal. 
It may be helpful to talk to your GP, a bereavement counsellor or another professional 
supporter.

If you would like to talk to a Bliss counsellor or to a trained advisor, please call 
our freephone Helpline on (PHONE)0500 618 140(PHONE). The line is open Monday to Friday, 
9am to 9pm. Or email us at (EMAIL)hello@bliss.org.uk(EMAIL) anytime and 
we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.

You might also find it helpful to download or order the Sands booklet 
(LINK)Saying goodbye to your baby(LINK)

