Saying goodbye

When your baby has died around the time of birth, you may have only a few memories of 
him or her. You may also have very few keepsakes.

Hospital staff now offer parents opportunities to create memories of their baby and to 
collect keepsakes that will help them to remember their baby. Although you may feel 
unsure about doing this, photos and other items can be precious, especially in the 
years to come. Having keepsakes to share with family members and friends may also help 
them to understand what the death of your baby means to you.

The staff caring for you will suggest a range of things you could do. 
Take time to think about what is right for you. If your baby died in the neonatal unit, 
you may have had time to start doing some of these.

The neonatal unit will probably have a room where you can be alone with your baby if 
you wish. Staff may ask if you wish to wash and dress your baby, or if you would 
prefer them to do this for you. Most units will take a photo of your baby, 
if you give permission. You might also receive a memento card with a footprint or 
handprint and a lock of your baby’s hair. Some parents keep the baby’s nametag and hat. 
Keepsakes like this affirm that this baby was part of your family and always will be.

It varies in each hospital, but in most units you should be able to stay with your baby 
for as long as you like. Many hospitals have multi-faith prayer rooms and chaplains to 
offer their support if or when you need it.

The hospital should offer some bereavement counselling to help you. Local hospice staff 
will also be able to tell you about the various procedures and choices. You can also talk 
to your faith leader or a funeral director.

Sands have produced a booklet, 'Saying goodbye to your baby'. You can order a copy from 
Sands or download it (LINK)here(LINK). It has been written for parents who have lost a 
baby and is based on information gathered from bereaved parents. The booklet contains 
chapters on how you may feel now and in the weeks and months ahead. It also covers
practical aspects such as registering your baby’s birth and death, telling your family 
and friends, creating memories, post mortem examinations and deciding about a funeral.

Support for siblings

It can be extremely difficult to explain to your other children why their brother or 
sister has died. Try to encourage your children to talk about how they are feeling and 
to acknowledge what has happened to their baby brother or sister. Be as open and honest 
as you can about what has happened and explain things in language that they will understand. 
Most of all, be honest and open about how you feel. Do not be afraid to show your emotions, 
likewise let them cry.

At some stage, most children blame themselves for the death of their baby brother or sister, 
so explaining the death in terms of ‘it was nobody’s fault’ is very important. 
A recent study found that the most important things in dealing with a child’s grief 
included:

-Recognising and acknowledging their grief.
-Including the child in family rituals.
-Keep the memory of the baby alive in the family.

For more information and support for the death of a baby sibling, 
visit the (LINK)Child Bereavement UK website(LINK) or 
(LINK)The Compassionate Friends Website(LINK)

Financial help

Financial difficulties can also have an impact at this time and add to the anxieties 
that you may already be facing. The rights and benefits to which bereaved parents may 
be entitled are complicated and depend on many things, including the length of the 
pregnancy, whether your baby was stillborn or lived for a short time after birth, 
whether you are employed and your earnings before the birth.

You can find more detailed information about financial benefits on 
(LINK)the Money Advice website.(LINK) 
The Sands booklet (LINK)Saying goodbye to your baby(LINK) also contains practical 
financial advice.

Remembering your loved one

Bliss has many ways in which you can remember someone special in a positive and lasting way. 
Precious Star Funds are a wonderful way for friends and family to make a monetary 
contribution, in your baby’s name. It can be comforting to know that all of the money 
raised in your loved one’s memory will help Bliss with our important work in improving 
the chances of survival in babies born premature or sick. If you would like to find out 
more, please take a look (LINK)here(LINK)
