Going home on oxygen 

The unit staff will have already discussed with you why your baby is now ready to go home. 
Usually it means that he or she is generally in good health, gaining weight and 
growing and feeding in a way that can be continued at home.

Some babies who need extra help with breathing will go home 'on oxygen'.

Discharge

Unit staff will arrange a meeting with you before your baby is discharged so that you can 
discuss the future and ask any questions. If there is a community outreach worker or 
family care worker attached to the unit (someone who will visit you once your baby is at 
home), it is likely they will co-ordinate the discharge. This will include talking to you 
about the practical side of caring for your baby at home and what it means for the family.

If you do not have a community outreach worker, then someone from the special care baby unit
(SCBU) will arrange the discharge instead. You should not be expected to do anything at home
that has not been explained and demonstrated to you by a health professional.

Home on Oxygen Order Form (HOOF)
	
A member of staff will order your baby’s oxygen on a Home Oxygen Order Form (HOOF). 
They will also fill out a prescription or HOOF for the amount of oxygen your baby will need. 
This will be forwarded directly to the home oxygen provider covering your area and they 
will contact you to arrange for delivery and installation of the oxygen supply to your home. 
You will be asked for consent for the company to get in touch with you.

Although it seems daunting at the beginning, having your baby at home will mean that 
you can start caring for and enjoying him or her in your own way. 
As confidence grows, you will develop a routine and become more of an expert on your 
baby’s oxygen needs than the medical staff.

What is oxygen?

Oxygen is a gas that is necessary for all cells in the body to generate energy and function 
properly. The air we breathe normally has 21 per cent oxygen. A maximum of 100 per cent 
oxygen can be given. If your baby is prescribed oxygen it is important to follow the 
guidelines given to you by your baby’s doctor or nurse for administration.

Your oxygen supplier will have a call centre open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, 
for urgent enquiries regarding the equipment.

Why does my baby need home oxygen?

Your baby’s lungs are not working well enough for him or her to get enough oxygen from 
the air. The most common reason for this is because of inflammation resulting from 
premature birth and insufficiency of the lungs. Your baby may, however, need oxygen 
for other reasons. If you are in any doubt, ask the staff looking after your baby.

Our booklet Going home on oxygen will help you and your family prepare for 
taking your baby home on oxygen. It is available to (LINK)order(LINK) or (LINK)download(LINK) 
free of charge from our online shop.

