Weaning

All ages given here are calculated from the date your baby was born, no matter how 
premature that was (unless otherwise stated). This is known as your baby’s ‘chronological’ 
or ‘uncorrected’ age. A corrected age is the age of your baby from the date your 
baby was due.

What is weaning?
‘Weaning’ is the gradual introduction of solid foods to a baby who has only ever 
had breast milk or baby milk formula as their nourishment.

Why wean?

-Babies reach a point when breast or formula milk no longer supplies all the nutrients 
they need to grow well.

-New tastes and textures help encourage babies to eat a good range of foods later on, 
and ensure that their diet is well balanced.

-Solids help babies to practice lip, tongue and jaw movements.

Why treat premature babies differently?
The process of weaning may take longer in babies born prematurely than in term babies. The information here is intended to provide guidance on weaning your healthy preterm infant. Babies with ongoing medical conditions that affect feeding or growth should follow advice from their local team.

If your baby has developed a long-term illness, for example developmental delay or 
ongoing gastro-oesophageal reflux, they may have more specific nutritional and/or 
feeding problems. If so, you may be referred to your local paediatric dietitian or 
speech and language therapist. If you are not and you feel you need help, make sure 
that you ask your health visitor or doctor, who can refer you.

Your baby's growth

Each baby will have his or her own individual growth pattern, particularly if 
he or she has long-term health problems. Many preterm babies will be small; some catch up, 
and others don’t. For those who don’t, this may be perfectly normal for them, 
as long as they are following their own growth curve.

The best way to see how well your baby is growing is for health professionals to 
regularly measure his or her weight, length and head circumference. 
It is important that this is done accurately and at the best time intervals 
(a common pitfall is doing it too often). Your local baby clinic is the best place for this. Ask your health visitor for more information.
You can find out more about weaning from our free booklet Weaning your premature baby. 
(LINK)Order(LINK) or (LINK)download(LINK) a copy from our online shop.

LINKS:
When to start

Important things to remember

Meal times

First foods

Introducing more foods

Finger foods

Family foods

Food refusal

First year drinks and beyond
